a comment about the weather and friendly
hug setting the tone for the visit
verbal bang one that is largely about
improving what has been a sometimes
fractious relationship and in his first
public remarks President Obama made a
pointed reference to the Jewish right to
the land that predates the formation of
the Israeli state I know that in
stepping foot on this land I walk with
you on the historic homeland of the
Jewish people no mention of the
Palestinian issue that was left to Prime
Minister Netanyahu first in an unstable
and uncertain Middle East the need for
our alliance is greater than ever it's
the key to thwart engaging peace it's
the key to achieve a stable and secure
peace that the people of Israel yearn
for all our neighbors and with all our
hearts we seek a peace with our
Palestinian neighbors the formalities
over President Obama removes his jacket
and the Prime Minister follows suit
throwing into even sharper focus the
matching blue ties but in the days ahead
differences between the two may still
emerge the dispute over settlement
building that marked Obama's first term
continues to simmer and when he crosses
into occupied territory this is what
President Obama may see thousands of new
homes still being built for Jewish
settlers despite repeated u.s. protest
and Palestinian complaint President
Obama says he's just here to talk but
behind the smiles and the handshakes the
visits to symbolic sites is a barren
reality forward through decades of
futile peacemaking there can be no
progress unless these facts on the
ground the concrete expression of
Israeli occupation are the focus of any
US involvement in negotiation Michener
al Jazeera is Jerusalem